---
layout: post
title:  "Day 9"
date:   2016-07-1 22:00:00 -0500
categories: Amtrak vacation
---
 Up early 6:15 to get everything ready for hiking day. Left later than planned, but still in the park by around 8:00. Pack pbj and leftover hotdogs for lunch. Have reserved parking (new thing), but not clear how it works. Find the reserved lot on the guide. Guide map and actual map are not the same (and neither match the signs well). Lot is marked on guide map as Yosemite Falls Day Use parking. Several gravel lots labeled as reserved, but I don't have a printout, and no one around to check with, so park in adjacent gravel lot that is open and only has a few cars. Walk past Yosemite lodge to lower Yosemite falls trailhead. Mist other trail is paved and wheelchair accessible. Upper part of the trail you have to walk. Good views, and can feel the mist on the bridge. People way up on the rocks despite the signs. Good views, and fun easy walk.  Catch the shuttle at stop 6 to stop 16, plan to do the 0.7 hike to Vernal Falls footbridge.  Really steep hill, but blacktop paved. Norah complaining, give snickers, then walk around bend and are practically there. Talk to NPS volunteer, decide to do mist trail to top of Vernal falls, and Muir trail back down. Eat lunch, refill water bottles. Short bit more blacktop, then stairs up. Really wet, stairs can be really high rise. Lots of people. Rainbows on the way up. Wow, the top is so high, and looking over the cliff. Take some pictures, eat a snack, and head for Muir trail. Most people apparently take the stairs down, Muir trail is light traffic. Hot, sunny going up for the first part, end up even with Nevada falls, and great view of it. Cross over the mountain, then start winding down switchbacks. More shady here, trail is mix of granite stones, blacktop, and sand over it. Sand over the blacktop is slick. Jessie fell and catches herself on her elbow on a rock. We go slower after that. Few people coming down from Glacier Point or other trails. Finally end up back at the footbridge. 0.7 to footbridge, 0.5 to top of falls, 1.6 down Muir, 0.7 back down. Watch says 10 miles at this point. Sat by the water and ate a few more snacks. Got back to stop 16, way too full. Would be waiting for several buses, decide to walk a while. Walk about a mile on the Valley Loop trail to stop 21. Get there just as a bus has arrived, but it is full, and says another should be by in 6 minutes. Wait about 20 minutes, no bus. Then the raft bus (yellow school bus) stops after dropping off rafters, and offers us all a ride to stop 1, then along the way offers to go up to stop 4, so we take it ( our car is at 7).  He explains that by 21 (last stop) bus is always full, and is probably backed up by traffic in the valley. We walk from 4 to our car at 7 another mile an a half or so. Luckily our parking lot is near the exit, so we get out without much trouble and avoid the line of traffic behind us. Kids are exhausted, and Norah, Jess, and maybe Wes fall asleep on the way back to the cabin. We all swim, and the kids play Marco Polo and Rainbow game in the pool with some Indian boys from LA. Their little brother falls in the pool and dad goes in to save him. Jess and I go back to make dinner (tacos) while the kids swim a little longer. Norah is too tired to stay up for ice cream, boys finish it off. 
