---
layout: post
title:  "Day 11"
date:   2016-07-3 22:00:00 -0500
categories: Amtrak vacation
---
Up early, eat bananas and pb. Drive over bay bridge to downtown. Park at Ace $30, supposed to be $40 b/c event pricing for holiday. Guy gave a discount for being early , we were there around 8:30. Ramp inside is scary steep, felt like a 45 degree incline. Walk two blocks to The Embarcadero, come out around Pier 35. Walk to Pier 39, not much open yet. Nice and quiet. See sea lions. Aquarium opens at 9, and we go. Good aquarium, tank with kelp is packed full of hiding animals. Kids touch shark jaws, elevator down to 1st floor big tanks. 350lbs sea bass, big school of sardines. Sardines open their mouths really wide. Shark tank next, prehistoric 7 fins, rays, spikey river fish. Touch the rays and shark, then rush through touch area to go get a snack. Pier is really busy now that we got out. Got a bucket of mini donuts, kids seem to be starving. Walk to Pier 31, get on Alcatraz boat noon departure, really smooth ride. Eat some clif bars on the way.  Walk up to guardhouse, pretty quick walk through, skipped the audio tour to save time. Might have missed out on some good info. Slammer sound with demo of lock mechanism. Really windy and getting foggy again. Back on the 13:55 boat. Bk to SF, eat at surf themed place (wipeout?) %15 discount with aquarium ticket (or $2 adult, $1 kid off aquarium with restaurant receipt). Restaurant sources sustainability harvested seafood. Seafood combo platter is huge. Anchor steam beer is good. Walk to crazy caps, and buy t-shirts. Wesley thinks $9 is too much, Jess talks him into it and buys him an Alcatraz stocking cap.  Really long line for checkout, German guy mad at his wife for too much shopping. Realize I left my cc at restaurant, try to pay with debit, their machine won't work; pay cash. Walk to restaurant to get my card while jess and kids go to watch sea lions again.  Can't find my card, leave my contact info. Walk back to Sea Lions, then I get the call they've found it! Happy about that, walk back, then we buy fruit at outdoor market. White peaches, apricots, dried kiwi for our train ride. Meant to stop at bakery and buy sourdough, but forgot in the crowd of people and just walked to the car. Traffic is not bad on the way back to Emeryville. Swim in the outdoor heated pool , still cold. I stay in hottub until very end, but even it felt cool. Jess doesn't swim. Wesley and Norah start getting crazy, and then say mean thins, like I don't play with them, we never get to do anything, etc. Because I won't go in the pool. Mason is teklinthem not to complain, and be aooreciative we are in california on vacation. I finally jump in the pool and Wesley thinks I am going to drown him if I tickle him. We dry off and go in. Takes Jess and kids a while to catch up to me, I think she may have given them a talking to, they are much calmer and eventually apologize. We go to black Bear Diner for dinner, I am still full from lunch and get a salad.  Everyone seems tired. Back to hotel to bed.
