---
layout: post
title:  "Day 1"
date:   2016-06-24 22:00:00 -0500
categories: Amtrak vacation
---
Scheduled to leave from Ottumwa to Granby at 18:53. We drive 2 hours to Ottumwa from Boone, and arrive a bit early. We park our car in the gravel lot just to the west of the station.  Parking is free, but the lot is unmonitored.  We walk around town a bit and look for a place to eat Dinner. We settle on the the [Second Street Cafe](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Second+Street+Cafe/@41.0150207,-92.4008733,15z/data=!4m5!3m4!1s0x0:0x62c45dc3a65b0d9e!8m2!3d41.0185827!4d-92.4113756), housed inside the first floor of the Hotel Ottumwa.  The cafe has good food, serves breakfast all day, and has a 50's vibe that reminds me of the Corner Cafe which used to be in the Kirkwood Hotel. Hard to find much evidence online that it ever existed, but it was apparently the subject of [a Des Moines Register article back in 1999.](https://www.newspapers.com/newspage/131195515/)

While we're at dinner, I keep an eye on the train status on the [Amtrak Android App](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.amtrak.rider). We see the train is running late, so we take our time, and walk back to the train station. The station should be open by now, but it is not and we start to get a bit worried. We walk around the building a couple times, and talk to a few other passengers who are waiting. We eventually see the train conductor and some other train staff and make our way over to talk.  The conductor explains that the ticket agent has taken a sick day, and there is no one available to print our tickets (the rail pass is still not offered as an e-ticket, and has to be picked up in person at a station with a ticket agent). We [panic for a while](https://twitter.com/baberlevi/status/746494301815738368), but the conductor takes our info, calls the main reservation line and makes arrangements for us to get on the train and pick up our tickets later in Omaha.

We stand around outside for a while (since the station is still locked), and the train finally arrives, an hour and a half late, allegedly due to a fire. I get off in the train in Omaha around midnight to pick up tickets, which are waiting for me at the counter. Later in the night, the train stops in for a while somewhere in western Nebraska, and it seems like the power goes out and the train turns off. Not sure why, and most people seem to be sleeping and don't notice. My seat mate traveling from Osceola to Denver is a restless sleeper, and flops around all night.  I put in my earplugs and get a little bit of sleep between waking jabs.
